
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="network_time_protocol_ntp">Network time protocol (NTP)</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
For many security service, we need to use NTP server to synchronize time. For example shibboleth needs less than 300 ms time difference between IDP and SP.
</p>

<p>
<strong>1. Install ntp client on your sever</strong>
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
yum install ntp ntpdate ntp-doc
</pre><ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> ntp : ntpd server which continuously adjusts system time and utilities used to query and configure the ntpd daemon.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> ntpdate : Utility to set the date and time via NTP.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> ntp-doc : NTP documentation</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>2. Register ntpd dameon in systemctl</strong>
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
# chkconfig ntpd on
# systemctl start ntpd
# systemctl status ntpd
</pre>
<p>
Make the ntpd damoen start at the start of the server
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
# systemctl enable ntpd
</pre>
<p>
<strong>3. Edit firewall</strong>
</p>

<p>
NTP service uses UDP port 123 on OSI transport layer (layer 4). It is designed particularly to resist the effects of variable latency (jitter). To open this port on RHEL/CentOS 7 run the following commands against Firewalld service.
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
# firewall-cmd --add-service=ntp --permanent
# firewall-cmd --reload
</pre>
<p>
<strong>4. Edit /etc/ntp.conf to define ntp server</strong>
</p>

<p>
You need to choose a ntp server which you want to synchronize your server time with.
</p>

<p>
The Default server is something like this :
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
server 0.centos.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 1.centos.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 2.centos.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 3.centos.pool.ntp.org iburst
</pre>
<p>
For bioaster, we use ntp.bioaster.local
It should looks like this
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
server  ntp.bioaster.local
</pre>
<p>
<strong>5. Verify ntp config</strong>
Use this command : <code>ntpq -p</code>
</p>

<p>
It shows the ntp server which you use for time synchro.
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
     remote           refid      st t when poll reach   delay   offset  jitter
==============================================================================
*srvadmin.bioast 195.154.41.195   3 u    4   64    1    8.170   -0.565   0.000

</pre>
<p>
<strong>6 Synchronize with a ntp server manually</strong>
</p>

<p>
<code>ntpdate -q ntp.bioaster.org</code>
</p>

<p>
timedatectl set-ntp 0
timedatectl set-ntp 1
</p>

<p>
timedatectl set-time &#039;2017-09-06 09:30:00&#039;
</p>

</div>
