
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="gitlab_git">Gitlab/git</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency. Git is easy to learn and has a tiny footprint with lightning fast performance. It outclasses SCM tools like Subversion, CVS, Perforce, and ClearCase with features like cheap local branching, convenient staging areas, and multiple workflows. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Gitlab/git" [1-425] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="install_git">Install git</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Install on centos 7 
</p>
<pre class="code">yum install git</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Install git" [426-504] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="configure_git">Configure git</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">git config --global user.name &quot;Your Name&quot;
git config --global user.email &quot;you@example.com&quot;

#check your config
git config --list</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Configure git" [505-676] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="create_a_git_dir_for_hosting_git_repo">Create a git dir for hosting git repo</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"></pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Create a git dir for hosting git repo" [677-744] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="clone_a_remote_repo_to_locale_repo">Clone a remote repo to locale repo</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">&gt; git clone &lt;url of your remote git repo&gt;
#example
&gt; git clone git@gitlab.in2p3.fr:pengfei/JavaDPTutor.git
Cloning into &#039;JavaDPTutor&#039;...
remote: Counting objects: 161, done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (124/124), done.
remote: Total 161 (delta 26), reused 161 (delta 26)
Receiving objects: 100% (161/161), 43.14 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (26/26), done.
Checking connectivity... done</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Clone a remote repo to locale repo" [745-1217] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="commit_changes_to_local_then_to_remote">Commit changes to local then to remote</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># Create a file README
# add file to git, -A means all if is a folder
git add -A README 
# commit file to local git repo
&gt;git commit -m &quot;Add readme&quot;
[test_git 3921e8a] Add readme
 1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
 create mode 100644 README

# push local git repo to remote repo
&gt;git push -u origin test_git
Counting objects: 4, done.
Delta compression using up to 32 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 344 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
remote: 
remote: To create a merge request for test_git, visit:
remote:   https://gitlab.in2p3.fr/pengfei/JavaDPTutor/merge_requests/new?merge_request%5Bsource_branch%5D=test_git
remote: 
To git@gitlab.in2p3.fr:pengfei/JavaDPTutor.git
 * [new branch]      test_git -&gt; test_git
Branch test_git set up to track remote branch test_git from origin.

</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Commit changes to local then to remote" [1218-2142] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="commit_changes_to_a_new_branch">Commit changes to a new branch</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># check branch status
/afs/in2p3.fr/home/p/pliu/git/JavaDPTutor(0)&gt;git branch
* master

# create a new branch
&gt;git checkout -b test_git

# recheck branch status
&gt; git branch
  master
* test_git

# change branch
&gt; git checkout master
Switched to branch &#039;master&#039;

</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Commit changes to a new branch" [2143-] -->