
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="reading_notes_from_the_book_soft_skillsthe_software_developer_s_life_manual">Reading notes from the book Soft Skills: The software developer&#039;s life manual.</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
It&#039;s not about teaching you how to polish your technical skills but to provide a list of useful suggestions that can benefit your development life in various aspects.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Reading notes from the book Soft Skills: The software developer&#039;s life manual.&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;reading_notes_from_the_book_soft_skillsthe_software_developer_s_life_manual&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-263&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="think_about_your_goals">Think about your goals</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Every step you take without a clear direction is a wasted step. Don&#039;t randomly walk through life without a purpose for your career.
Try to split your big goals into smaller goals. The smaller goals keep you on track and motivated so that you keep heading in the direction of your bigger goals.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Think about your goals&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;think_about_your_goals&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;264-594&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="climbing_the_corporate_ladder">Climbing the corporate ladder</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Taking responsibility: there is almost always some neglected area of business that you can find to contribute your talents to - you just have to dig to find it. One of the best places to search is in areas that no one else wants to get involved in. Another way to indirectly take on responsibility is to become a mentor for others on your team.
Becoming visible: All of your hard work can easily go to waste if you can&#039;t find a way to let your boss and upper management know what you&#039;re doing.
Keep daily/weekly report.
Offer to give presentations or training.
Speak up - do this at meetings.
Be seen - set up regular meetings with your boss.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Climbing the corporate ladder&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;climbing_the_corporate_ladder&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;595-1281&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="being_professional">Being professional</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
A professional is someone who takes their responsibilities and career seriously and is willing to make the tough choices that have to be made - often at their own expense - for the purpose of doing what they know is right. Set a high bar and stick to it, don&#039;t compromise for the shorcut.
A real professional has high-quality standards for all areas of his or her work, because a professional knows that &#039;how you do anything is how you do everything.
Find your gaps: anything you&#039;re doing repeatedly is worth a thorough examination to see if there&#039;s something you don&#039;t know that, if you did, might increase your efficiency.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Being professional&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;being_professional&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1282-1939&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="leaning_-_10_steps">Leaning - 10 steps</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Get the big picture</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Determine scope</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Define success</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Find Resource</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create a learning plan</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Filter resources</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Learn enough to get started</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Play around</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Learn enough to do something useful (e.g. apply in real projects)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> TEACH</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Leaning - 10 steps&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;leaning_-_10_steps&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1940-2229&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="facing_failure">Facing failure</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Failure isn&#039;t the same thing as defeat. Failure is temporary, defeat is permanent. If you want to succeed, you have to learn how to swallow your pride and get out there and not be afraid to make a fool of yourself.
You could have all the skills in life that should make you successful, but if you lack one important skill, perseverance, it will all be worthless, because at the first sign of trouble, you&#039;lll give up - and we all will face some amount of trouble in our lives.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Facing failure&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;facing_failure&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2230-2735&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="productivity">Productivity</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Working like a machine on a tight schedule every single day isn&#039;t something that can be maintained in the long run. Make sure that you have some time off, best to save it for the family.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pomodoro technique: the basic idea is that you plan out the work you&#039;re going to do for a day. Then you set a timer for 40 minutes and work on the first task you&#039;ve planned. You work only on a single task at a time and give it your complete focus for the full 40 minutes. If you&#039;re being interrupted, there are various ways of handling the interruption, but generally, you strive to not be interrupted at all. You never want to break focus.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It&#039;s important to develop a sense of <strong>self-accountability</strong> to be productive. Without accountability, you&#039;re always dependent on external motivations to get you to perform.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Get away from time wasters</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> * Watching TV</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> * Social media</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> * Unnecessary meetings</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> * Playing video games(especially online games)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
* Breaking down things
One of the main reasons for procrastination which is the bane of productivity is problem admiration: being so busy admiring the size of a problem that you don&#039;t actually try and solve it.
When faced with large problems we tend to spend more time thinking about the problem than taking steps to solve the problem. It&#039;s important to make wise decisions and to think things through, but often you don&#039;t have all the information you&#039;d like to have and you have to just go ahead and make a choice - TAKE ACTION.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Productivity&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;productivity&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2736-&quot;} -->