
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="install_dokuwiki_on_centos7">Install dokuwiki on Centos7</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
DokuWiki is a simple to use and highly versatile Open Source wiki software that doesn&#039;t require a database. It is loved by users for its clean and readable syntax. The ease of maintenance, backup, and integration makes it an administrator&#039;s favorite.
</p>

<p>
I use it to store all my documentation on all the jobs that I have done.
</p>

<p>
Official doc: <a href="https://www.dokuwiki.org/install:centos" class="urlextern" title="https://www.dokuwiki.org/install:centos" rel="ugc nofollow">https://www.dokuwiki.org/install:centos</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Install dokuwiki on Centos7&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;install_dokuwiki_on_centos7&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-426&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="pre-install">0. Pre-Install</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
dokuwiki requires only apache web server and php to run. If you want to enable https, you may need to install mod_ssl
</p>
<pre class="code"># check your centos version
cat /etc/centos-release

# disable your selinux only for httpd, 
semanage permissive -a httpd_t

# add firewall rule
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-service=http
firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-service=https
firewall-cmd --reload


# Install required and useful packages.
sudo yum install -y wget vim bash-completion

# Set up the timezone for Paris.
timedatectl list-timezones
timedatectl set-timezone &#039;Europe/Paris&#039;

# add repo for installing php 7.1
yum install epel-release
rpm -Uvh https://mirror.webtatic.com/yum/el7/webtatic-release.rpm

# install php 7.1 and required package
yum install -y php71w php71w-cli php71w-fpm php71w-gd php71w-xml php71w-zip

# check php version
php --version
 

</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;0. Pre-Install&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;pre-install&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;427-1342&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="install_httpd">1. Install httpd</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># Install httpd
yum install httpd mod_ssl

# enable it from boot
systemctl enable httpd

# start the daemon
systemctl start httpd

# check the test page
http://&lt;ip/domainName-of-your-vm&gt;
</pre>

<p>
Add a test.php file under /var/www/html to test your php via apahce
</p>
<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="/doku.php?do=export_code&amp;id=employes:pengfei.liu:dev_tools:dokuwiki&amp;codeblock=2" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_php">test.php</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file php"><span class="kw2">&lt;?php</span>
<a href="http://www.php.net/phpinfo"><span class="kw3">phpinfo</span></a><span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span><span class="sy0">;</span>
<span class="sy1">?&gt;</span></pre>
</dd></dl>
<pre class="code"># Restart httpd and check the following url
http://&lt;ip/url-of-your-vm&gt;/test.php</pre>

<p>
Now everything works, we need to create a virtualhost for dokuwiki. I will give two version
One without ssl one with.
</p>
<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="/doku.php?do=export_code&amp;id=employes:pengfei.liu:dev_tools:dokuwiki&amp;codeblock=4" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_conf">doku.conf</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file conf">&lt;VirtualHost *:80&gt;
   ServerName ec2-52-47-136-8.eu-west-3.compute.amazonaws.com
   ServerAlias 52.47.136.8
   DocumentRoot /var/www/html/dokuwiki
&nbsp;
  &lt;Directory /var/www/html/dokuwiki&gt;
 Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
AllowOverride All
Require  all granted
 &lt;/Directory&gt; 
ServerSignature off
ErrorLog /var/log/httpd/error_log
CustomLog /var/log/httpd/access_log combined
&nbsp;
&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;</pre>
</dd></dl>
<dl class="file">
<dt><a href="/doku.php?do=export_code&amp;id=employes:pengfei.liu:dev_tools:dokuwiki&amp;codeblock=5" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_conf">doku_ssl.conf</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code file conf">&lt;VirtualHost *:80&gt;
    ServerName 104.196.24.4
    ServerAlias wiki.pengfei.org
    Redirect permanent / https://35.243.150.190/
&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;
&nbsp;
If you don't have signed certificate, you need to generate an auto-signed certificate
&lt;code&gt;
# generate private key and certificate
openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 965 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout wiki.pengfei.org.key -out wiki.pengfei.org.crt
&nbsp;
# copy them to the standard place
cp wiki.pengfei.org.key /etc/pki/tls/private/.
cp wiki.pengfei.org.crt /etc/pki/tls/certs/.
&lt;/code&gt;
&nbsp;
&lt;VirtualHost *:443&gt;
   ServerName 104.196.24.4
   ServerAlias wiki.pengfei.org
   DocumentRoot /var/www/html/dokuwiki
&nbsp;
  &lt;Directory /var/www/html/dokuwiki&gt;
 Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
AllowOverride All
Require  all granted
 &lt;/Directory&gt; 
ServerSignature off
ErrorLog /var/log/httpd/error_log
CustomLog /var/log/httpd/access_log combined
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
    SSLEngine       on
    SSLProtocol all -SSLv2
    SSLCipherSuite ALL:!ADH:!EXPORT:!SSLv2:RC4+RSA:+HIGH:+MEDIUM
&nbsp;
    SSLCertificateFile      /etc/pki/tls/certs/wiki.pengfei.org.crt
    SSLCertificateKeyFile   /etc/pki/tls/private/wiki.pengfei.org.key
    SSLCertificateChainFile /etc/pki/tls/certs/wiki.pengfei.org.crt
&nbsp;
&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;</pre>
</dd></dl>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;1. Install httpd&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;install_httpd&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1343-3589&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="download_or_use_existing_dokuwiki_files">2. Download or use existing dokuwiki files</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Get the dokuwiki source, unzip it and put it /var/www/html
</p>
<pre class="code"># change owner to apache
chown -R apache:root /var/www/html/dokuwiki

#If you download it as new dokuwiki, you will need to visit http://&lt;ip/url-of-your-vm&gt;/install.php first.
</pre>

<p>
In this page, you will need to set up the root user login and pwd, and give a name to your dokuwiki website.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;2. Download or use existing dokuwiki files&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;download_or_use_existing_dokuwiki_files&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:6,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3590-4009&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="update_your_dokuwiki">3. Update your dokuwiki</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
1. Replace the data directory in the new release by the old data directory which has all your work 
2. Replace the conf directory in the new release by the old conf directory which has all your configuration 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;3. Update your dokuwiki&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;update_your_dokuwiki&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:7,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4010-4257&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="install_plugin">4. Install plugin</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;4. Install plugin&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;install_plugin&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:7,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4258-4288&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="export_to_pdf_plugin">4.1 Export to pdf plugin</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
I used DW2pdf plugin. Login to dokuwiki as admin, then go to admin dashboard→plugin manager→ search dw2pdf.
</p>

<p>
This plugin requires a php dependencies mbstring
</p>
<pre class="code">yum install php71w-mbstring
systemctl restart httpd</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;4.1 Export to pdf plugin&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;export_to_pdf_plugin&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:7,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4289-4554&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit8" id="common_problems">common problems</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Can&#039;t open file due to permission. 
</p>

<p>
1. Check the /var/www/html/dokuwiki owner and acl
2. disable selinux
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;common problems&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;common_problems&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:8,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4555-&quot;} -->