
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="use_redis_for_file_blocking">Use redis for file blocking</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Additional notes for Redis vs. APCu on Memory Caching
</p>

<p>
APCu is faster at local caching than Redis. If you have enough memory, use APCu for memory caching and <span style='color:#ed1c24; '>Redis for file locking</span>. If you are low on memory, use Redis for both.
</p>
<pre class="code">yum install epel-release
yum update
# install redis server
yum install redis
# install php71 redis driver
php71w-pecl-redis

#start redis
systemctl start/stop/status/restart redis

#run redis at bootup
systemctl enable redis

#verify redis, it should answer PONG
redis-cli ping
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Use redis for file blocking" [1-591] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="persistence_options">Persistence Options</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Redis provides two options for disk persistence:
</p>

<p>
Point-in-time snapshots of the dataset, made at specified intervals (RDB).
</p>

<p>
Append-only logs of all the write operations performed by the server (AOF).
</p>

<p>
Each option has its own pros and cons which are detailed in the Redis documentation. For the greatest level of data safety, consider running both persistence methods.
</p>

<p>
Because the Point-in-time snapshot persistence is enabled by default, you only need to set up AOF persistence:
</p>
<pre class="code">#Edit /etc/redis.conf, change the following lines
appendonly yes
appendfsync everysec</pre>

<p>
Restart redis to make it effective
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Persistence Options" [592-1245] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="basic_system_tuning">Basic System Tuning</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
To improve Redis performance, set the Linux kernel overcommit memory setting to 1:
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo sysctl vm.overcommit_memory=1</code>
</p>

<p>
This immediately changes the overcommit memory setting, but the change will not persist across reboots. To make it permanent, add vm.overcommit_memory = 1 to /etc/sysctl.conf:
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo vim /etc/sysctl.conf

vm.overcommit_memory = 1
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Basic System Tuning" [1246-1648] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="edit_configphp_for_owncloud_to_use_redis">Edit config.php for owncloud to use redis</h3>
<div class="level3">
<pre class="code">&#039;memcache.locking&#039; =&gt; &#039;\\OC\\Memcache\\Redis&#039;,
  &#039;redis&#039; =&gt; 
  array (
    &#039;host&#039; =&gt; &#039;localhost&#039;,
    &#039;port&#039; =&gt; 6379,
  ),</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Edit config.php for owncloud to use redis" [1649-] -->