
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="data_governance">Data governance</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Data governance&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;data_governance&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-31&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="what_is_data_governance">What is data governance</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<strong>Data governance</strong> is a data management concept concerning the capability that enables an organization to ensure that high data quality exists throughout the complete lifecycle of the data. 
</p>

<p>
Data governance key focus area:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Availability,</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Usability, </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Consistency, </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Data integrity, </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Data security.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Data governance tools must establishing processes to ensure effective data management throughout the data processing lifecycle such as accountability for the adverse effects of poor data quality and ensuring that the data which an data warehouse has can be used by the entire organization.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;What is data governance&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;what_is_data_governance&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;32-685&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="what_problem_data_governance_solution_can_resolve">What problem data governance solution can resolve</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
A data governance solution must answer questions such as :
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Which sources are feeding data? (data traceability)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What is the data schema of these sources? (data usability)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Which process reads the data and how is it transformed? (data linkage)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> When was the data last updated? (data audit)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Who did the last update? (data audit)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can we classify the data? (data usability)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Can we find data based on their classification?  (data usability)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
All the data which helps answer the above questions are called data governance meta-data.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;What problem data governance solution can resolve&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;what_problem_data_governance_solution_can_resolve&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;686-&quot;} -->