
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="install_tensorflow_on_ubuntu_1604">Install Tensorflow on Ubuntu 16.04</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Install Tensorflow on Ubuntu 16.04" [1-50] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
TensorFlow is an open-source machine learning software built by Google to train neural networks. TensorFlow&#039;s neural networks are expressed in the form of stateful dataflow graphs. Each node in the graph represents the operations performed by neural networks on multi-dimensional arrays. These multi-dimensional arrays are commonly known as “tensors”, hence the name TensorFlow.
</p>

<p>
TensorFlow is a deep learning software system. TensorFlow works well for information retrieval, as demonstrated by Google in how they do search ranking in their machine-learning artificial intelligence system, RankBrain. TensorFlow can perform image recognition, as shown in Google&#039;s Inception, as well as human language audio recognition. It&#039;s also useful in solving other problems not specific to machine learning, such as partial differential equations.
</p>

<p>
The TensorFlow architecture allows for deployment on multiple CPUs or GPUs within a desktop, server or mobile device. There are also extensions for integration with CUDA, a parallel computing platform from Nvidia. This gives users who are deploying on a GPU direct access to the virtual instruction set and other elements of the GPU that are necessary for parallel computational tasks.
</p>

<p>
In this tutorial, you&#039;ll install TensorFlow&#039;s “CPU support only” version. This installation is ideal for people looking to install and use TensorFlow, but who don&#039;t have an Nvidia graphics card or don&#039;t need to run performance-critical applications.
</p>

<p>
You can install TensorFlow several ways. Each method has a different use case and development environment:
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo pip install tensorflow</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction" [51-] -->