
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="conference_openstack_in_action_5">Conférence &quot;OpenStack in action! 5&quot;</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Le mercredi 28 mai 2014, à Paris. Participants : TLC
</p>

<p>
Liens sur le site d&#039;eNovance : <a href="http://openstackinaction.com/" class="urlextern" title="http://openstackinaction.com/"  rel="nofollow">OpenStack in Action!</a>
</p>

<p>
<strong>Impressions</strong> : Une journée de promotion d&#039;eNovance (la moitié des intervenants étant de la compagnie) et des solutions commerciales des différents partenaires (Red Hat, Suse…). Des sessions techniques très techniques. 
</p>

<p>
<strong>A retenir</strong> :
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> les techniques de tests du projet ;</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> le processus d&#039;intégration continue d&#039;eNovance ;</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> je suis le seul à avoir un laptop avec Windows… j&#039;ai honte de le sortir ;</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> pas mal de gens sont en train de <em>reviewer</em> des patchs (avec <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerrit_%28software%29" class="urlextern" title="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerrit_%28software%29"  rel="nofollow">Gerrit</a>et <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tools_for_code_review" class="urlextern" title="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tools_for_code_review"  rel="nofollow">autres</a>)</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Conférence OpenStack in action! 5" [1-821] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="h35_-_accelerate_your_business_in_the_open_hybrid_cloud_with_openstackbryan_che">09h35 - Accelerate your business in the open hybrid cloud with OpenStack / Bryan Che</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation (commerciale) des services cloud de Red Hat.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> “Dans 10 ans, rien en IT ne se fera sans OpenStack”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> La maintenance représente 80% du budget de l&#039;IT ; OpenStack veut inverser le ratio.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Les mots du jour : “Agile, efficiant, scalable”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> RedHat <a href="https://www.openshift.com/" class="urlextern" title="https://www.openshift.com/"  rel="nofollow">OpenShift</a> PaaS</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://openshift.github.io/geard/" class="urlextern" title="http://openshift.github.io/geard/"  rel="nofollow">GearD</a> for containers (docker: isolated apps in a VM) on top of RedHat Linux atomic host</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="https://www.redhat.com/products/cloud-computing/cloudforms/" class="urlextern" title="https://www.redhat.com/products/cloud-computing/cloudforms/"  rel="nofollow">CloudForms</a> (anciennement ManageIQ) : gestion “commerciale” d&#039;un cloud</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "09h35 - Accelerate your business in the open hybrid cloud with OpenStack / Bryan Che" [822-1502] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="h05_-_combining_cloud_technologies_to_leveragejean_philippe_melet">10h05 - Combining cloud technologies to leverage / Jean Philippe Melet</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation commerciale de la solution vicube de la société Econocom
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> “Marketwise, cloud is a huge oportunity for business”</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "10h05 - Combining cloud technologies to leverage / Jean Philippe Melet" [1503-1719] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="h30_-_is_openstack_ready_for_the_enterprisenick_barcet">10h30 - Is OpenStack ready for the enterprise? / Nick Barcet</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> OpenStack is NOT a product! It&#039;s a technology framework. A cloud can be based on OpenStack</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Saving money on licensing fee is not a good reason to switch (ex: ESX, licensing is only 10%, 35% human cost)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Good reasons to switch : it&#039;s Free software (Adaptability, Security, Sharing, Standard, Hybridate)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> “better, quicker, faster on the way to succes”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Stop pre-control craziness: trust is the first enabler of inovation, wich leads to responsability, autonomy and creativity</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> mesure in end goals, not in milestones</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "10h30 - Is OpenStack ready for the enterprise? / Nick Barcet" [1720-2327] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="h50_-_openstack_powered_by_usersjonathan_bryce">11h50 - OpenStack powered by users / Jonathan Bryce</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation renommée “OpenStack global update” qui est un résumé de ce qui s&#039;est dit à Atlanta.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It&#039;s a plateform. Apache 2 license</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Icehouse: 9th release, 1200 dev (+30%)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> OpenStack summit in november in Paris</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "11h50 - OpenStack powered by users / Jonathan Bryce" [2328-2620] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="h50_-_why_openstack__for_private_cloudandrew_mitry">11h50 -  Why OpenStack [...] for private cloud? / Andrew Mitry</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation par une personne de NBCUniversal des raisons pour lesquels ils ont choisi OpenStack.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Community is driving the standards</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Not locked-in by vendor</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr> abstraction, IPv6</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "11h50 -  Why OpenStack [...] for private cloud? / Andrew Mitry" [2621-2890] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="h20_-_behind_the_scenehow_we_produce_openstackthierry_carrez">12h20 - Behind the scene: how we produce OpenStack / Thierry Carrez</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation de quelques statistiques et pratiques du projet OpenStack.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 130+ git repo, 1.8+ MLOC</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>principals</strong></div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> if it&#039;s not (automatically) tested then it&#039;s considered as not working</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> code review (for everyone)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> gate-centric dev (robotic overlord)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> time based releases (all the teams keep in sync)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> automate everything</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>challenges</strong></div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <em>chaos</em>: no offical project goals</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> task <em>coordination</em> across groups</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <em>congestion</em> of the gate (tests in parallel : A, A+B, A+B+C)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <em>rare occurences</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> community focus</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> “watercooler effect” : discussions à la machine à café remplacées par <abbr title="Internet Relay Chat">IRC</abbr> et mailing lists</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> anger (!!)… meet face to face</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> “biggest software development ever” (?)</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "12h20 - Behind the scene: how we produce OpenStack / Thierry Carrez" [2891-3730] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="h00_-_easing_deployment_of_highly_available_openstack_cloudvincent_untz">14h00 - Easing deployment of Highly available OpenStack cloud / Vincent Untz</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation des solutions de haute disponibilité.
</p>

<p>
High Availability (HA) done using Pacemaker on GNU. Required to reach 99,9% (and more) availability, minimises system downtime, minimises data loss.
</p>

<p>
Différentes stratégies :
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Active/Passive: a server takes over in case of failure</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Active/Active: load balancing, DB… (for stateless software)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
HA in OpenStack: redondant network, storage…
</p>

<p>
<strong>Good news</strong>: guide available, many stateless services. <strong>Bad news</strong>: difficult, services not easy to set up in active/active (DB)
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pacemaker_%28software%29" class="urlextern" title="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pacemaker_%28software%29"  rel="nofollow">Pacemaker</a>: “you don&#039;t want it, but you need it” (to reach 99,9% SLA)
</p>

<p>
<a href="http://clusterlabs.org/wiki/Hawk" class="urlextern" title="http://clusterlabs.org/wiki/Hawk"  rel="nofollow">Hawk</a>: web UI for Pacemaker
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "14h00 - Easing deployment of Highly available OpenStack cloud / Vincent Untz" [3731-4553] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="h30_-_bridges_and_tunnels__openstack_networkingmark_mcclain">14h30 - Bridges and tunnels [...] OpenStack networking / Mark McClain</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation très technique du composant réseau d&#039;OpenStack : Neutron.
</p>

<p>
Why Neutron? Additionnal features, technology agnostique, unified <abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr> and small core
</p>

<p>
Rest of the talk: technical details and implementation
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "14h30 - Bridges and tunnels [...] OpenStack networking / Mark McClain" [4554-4853] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="h00_-_code_testing_strategieschmouel_boujnah">15h00 - Code testing strategies / Chmouel Boujnah</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation un peu farfelue de la manière dont les tests sont organisés dans OpenStack.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unit test: Test Driven Development (TDD), coding style (flake8 on top of pep8)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Integration testing (<abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr>)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Performence testing (benchmarking): do hardware performence test first</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Scalability testing</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> regression</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> compatibility</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pentesting</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Usability</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Tools and Libraries</strong>: DevStack, tox/virtualenv, pbr, testrunner, coverage, testtools, mock, httppretty, six, tempest
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "15h00 - Code testing strategies / Chmouel Boujnah" [4854-5405] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="h30_-_nova_road_to_junonikola_dipanov">15h30 - Nova, Road to Juno / Nikola Dipanov</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation un peu confuse de la migration de Nova Network lors de la dernière release.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Main concerns</strong>: live upgrades, live migrations
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "15h30 - Nova, Road to Juno / Nikola Dipanov" [5406-5605] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit12" id="h30_-_openstack_and_cephsebastien_han">16h30 - OpenStack and Ceph / Sebastien Han</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation de <a href="http://ceph.com/" class="urlextern" title="http://ceph.com/"  rel="nofollow">Ceph</a> et de son intégration dans OpenStack.
</p>

<p>
Can be used since IceHouse with all the OpenStack components
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "16h30 - OpenStack and Ceph / Sebastien Han" [5606-5806] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit13" id="h00_-_openstack_on_a_silver_platteremilien_macchi">17h00 - OpenStack on a silver platter / Emilien Macchi</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Présentation des méthodes d&#039;intégration continue (CI) d&#039;OpenStack par la société eNovance. Ce processus est mis en place pour gérer toute la mise à jour, le principal problème étant l&#039;ordre de redémarrage des différents composants.
</p>

<p>
All the tools developped by eNovance are OpenSource and available on GitHub.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Jenkins</strong>: install OpenStack everyday on VM, then use tempest to test. Used to validate upstream packages and installation</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>eDeploy</strong>: to deploy (using rsync) on the real hardware, no new pkg after deployment</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Config:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Puppet</strong> and <strong>serverspec</strong></div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>config-tools</strong> supervises puppet</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> puppet uses modules from stackforge</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> *Sanity: <strong>smoke</strong> and <strong>tempest</strong></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Upgrade: <strong>Ansible</strong> playbooks</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "17h00 - OpenStack on a silver platter / Emilien Macchi" [5807-] -->