
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="install_owncloud_client">Install owncloud client</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This fat client will sync your entire owncloud folder to your local desktop. It may cost you a lot.
</p>

<p>
1. Install the owncloud-client 
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
cd /etc/yum.repos.d/

wget http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/isv:ownCloud:desktop/CentOS_7/isv:ownCloud:desktop.repo

yum install owncloud-client
</pre>
<p>
2. Configure the client
</p>

<p>
Click on Applicaions→Accessories→owncloud desktop sync client
</p>

<p>
Enter the owncloud server address: <a href="https://owncloud.bioaster.org" class="urlextern" title="https://owncloud.bioaster.org"  rel="nofollow">https://owncloud.bioaster.org</a>
</p>

<p>
Enter your login password owncloud
</p>

<p>
You choose the folder you want to sync and local folder path  
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Install owncloud client" [1-598] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="mount_webdav_on_centos_7">Mount webdav on centos 7</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
There are two ways to do this,
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use Gnome or KDE utilites.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use package davfs2 to mount webdav as a file system </div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Mount webdav on centos 7" [599-759] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="mount_webdav_via_gnome">Mount webdav via Gnome</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
1.If you have a gnome or KDE <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> on your centos. It&#039;s very simple. Open a folder (Click on Places→ Home). Now on the top menu bar, you will see a new tab “Files”. Click on Files, then chose connect to Server.
</p>

<p>
2. In the Server address bar, you put 
</p>

<p>
<code>davs:<em>owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/<code>

If your server is on http then use 

</code>dav:</em>owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/</code>
</p>

<p>
A pop up window will ask your login password.
</p>

<p>
After this you will see a new folder on the left hand side bar.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Mount webdav via Gnome" [760-1302] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="mount_webdav_via_davfs">Mount webdav via davfs</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
1. Install epel, the davfs2 package is in the epel repo
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo yum install epel-release</code>
</p>

<p>
2. Install davfs2 package
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo yum install davfs2</code>
</p>

<p>
3. Create mount point and conf folder for davfs2
</p>

<p>
<code>mkdir /home/&lt;uid&gt;/owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>mkdir /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2</code>
</p>

<p>
4. Copy and edit davfs conifg file
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo cp /etc/davfs2/secrets /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2/</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo chown &lt;uid&gt;:&lt;uid&gt; /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2/secrets</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo chmod 0600 /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2/secrets</code>
</p>

<p>
Add the following line at the end of file secrets
</p>

<p>
<code><a href="https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/" class="urlextern" title="https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/"  rel="nofollow">https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/</a> &lt;username&gt; &lt;password&gt;</code>
</p>

<p>
5. Mount the webdav
</p>

<p>
<code>mount -t davfs <a href="https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/" class="urlextern" title="https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/"  rel="nofollow">https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/</a> /home/&lt;uid&gt;/owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
6 Make the auto mount at boot
</p>

<p>
Edit /etc/fstab, add the following line at the end of the file
</p>

<p>
<code><a href="https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav" class="urlextern" title="https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav"  rel="nofollow">https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav</a>   /home/&lt;uid&gt;/owncloud davfs user,rw,auto 0 0</code>
</p>

<p>
<strong>I have tested this, it&#039;s not good idea. Because, at boot stage, you don&#039;t have internet connections alreay, it may result to error.</strong>
</p>

<p>
7. Known issues
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> You may have this as warning message, /sbin/mount.davfs: warning: the server does not support locks</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
You can add <code>use_locks 0</code> in /etc/davfs2/davfs2.conf
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To avoid answer y for accepting servcer certificates. Copy server-certificate.pem to /etc/davfs2/certs/. Then edit /etc/davfs2/davfs2.conf and uncomment the line servercert <code>servercert /etc/davfs2/certs/server-certificate.pem</code></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Mount webdav via davfs" [1303-] -->