
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="owncloud_upgrade">Owncloud upgrade</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
In this article, we only show how to upgrade manually.
</p>

<p>
For more information, please go to <a href="https://doc.owncloud.org/server/9.0/admin_manual/maintenance/manual_upgrade.html" class="urlextern" title="https://doc.owncloud.org/server/9.0/admin_manual/maintenance/manual_upgrade.html"  rel="nofollow">https://doc.owncloud.org/server/9.0/admin_manual/maintenance/manual_upgrade.html</a>
</p>

<p>
Backup yourowncloud before your upgrade. 
</p>

<p>
<code>mkdir /home/bioaster/Documents/owncloud_backup/</code>
</p>

<p>
Dump owncloud database:
</p>

<p>
<code>mysqldump -h ccmysql.in2p3.fr -u bio_owncloud -p bio_owncloud | gzip &gt; /home/bioaster/Documents/owncloud_backup/dump_owncloud.sql.zip</code>
</p>

<p>
Copy config.php and data
</p>

<p>
<code> cp /var/www/html/owncloud/config/config.php /home/bioaster/Documents/owncloud_backup/</code>
</p>

<p>
<code> cp -r /var/www/html/owncloud/data /home/bioaster/Documents/owncloud_backup/</code>
</p>

<p>
If you have extra apps in owncloud, you need to check them one by one. Because some of them change version also to match with owncloud.
</p>

<p>
For example, the plugin <strong>documents</strong> has a version for 8.2.x, 9.0.x and 9.1.x. More details : <a href="https://apps.owncloud.com/content/show.php/Documents?content=168711" class="urlextern" title="https://apps.owncloud.com/content/show.php/Documents?content=168711"  rel="nofollow">https://apps.owncloud.com/content/show.php/Documents?content=168711</a>.
</p>

<p>
Now we can start the upgrade.
</p>

<p>
goto the current owncloud folder
</p>

<p>
<code>cd /var/www/html/owncloud/</code>
</p>

<p>
Put current owncloud on maintenance mode
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo -u biodata php occ maintenance:mode –on</code>
</p>

<p>
Rename the current owncloud folder
</p>

<p>
<code>mv /var/www/html/owncloud /var/www/html/owncloud-old</code>
</p>

<p>
Now download the new version, unzip and put it under /var/www/html/.
</p>

<p>
<code>cd /tmp</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>wget <a href="https://download.owncloud.org/community/owncloud-9.1.1.tar.bz2" class="urlextern" title="https://download.owncloud.org/community/owncloud-9.1.1.tar.bz2"  rel="nofollow">https://download.owncloud.org/community/owncloud-9.1.1.tar.bz2</a></code>
</p>

<p>
<code>tar -xjvf owncloud-9.1.1.tar.bz2</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>chown -R biodata:bioaster owncloud </code>
</p>

<p>
If your selinux is still on,reset the selinux label
</p>

<p>
<code>restorecon -vR owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>mv owncloud /var/www/html/.</code>
</p>

<p>
In the new version, you need to copy the config.php and data, Then you need to add apps in owncloud/apps/
</p>

<p>
<code>cd /var/www/html/owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>cp ../owncloud-old/config/config.php config/.</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>cp -r ../owncloud-old/data .</code>
</p>

<p>
Now let&#039;s run the upgrade script.
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo -u biodata php occ upgrade</code>
</p>

<p>
If everything goes well, you should see something like this.
</p>
<pre class="code">Set log level to debug
Turned on maintenance mode
Checking whether the database schema can be updated (this can take a long time depending on the database size)
Checked database schema update
Checking updates of apps
Checking whether the database schema for &lt;activity&gt; can be updated (this can take a long time depending on the database size)
Checking whether the database schema for &lt;files_sharing&gt; can be updated (this can take a long time depending on the database size)
Checking whether the database schema for &lt;files_trashbin&gt; can be updated (this can take a long time depending on the database size)
Checking whether the database schema for &lt;notifications&gt; can be updated (this can take a long time depending on the database size)
Checked database schema update for apps
Updating database schema
Updated database
Disabled 3rd-party app: documents
Disabled 3rd-party app: files_videoviewer
Disabled 3rd-party app: updater
Updating &lt;files_pdfviewer&gt; ...
Updated &lt;files_pdfviewer&gt; to 0.8.1
Updating &lt;files_texteditor&gt; ...
Updated &lt;files_texteditor&gt; to 2.1
Updating &lt;gallery&gt; ...
Updated &lt;gallery&gt; to 14.5.0
Updating &lt;files&gt; ...
Updated &lt;files&gt; to 1.4.4
Updating &lt;activity&gt; ...
Updated &lt;activity&gt; to 2.2.1
Updating &lt;files_sharing&gt; ...
Updated &lt;files_sharing&gt; to 0.9.1
Updating &lt;files_trashbin&gt; ...
Updated &lt;files_trashbin&gt; to 0.8.0
Updating &lt;files_versions&gt; ...
Updated &lt;files_versions&gt; to 1.2.0
Updating &lt;notifications&gt; ...
Updated &lt;notifications&gt; to 0.2.3
Updating &lt;provisioning_api&gt; ...
Updated &lt;provisioning_api&gt; to 0.4.1
Update 3rd-party app: documents
Starting code integrity check...
Finished code integrity check
Update successful
Turned off maintenance mode
Reset log level</pre>

<p>
Restart httpd to see the new version
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Owncloud upgrade" [1-3698] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="restore_owncloud">Restore owncloud</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
If something bad happens, you can no longer use your owncloud. You can restore it.
</p>

<p>
Restore database, 
</p>

<p>
<code>mysql -u root -p</code>
</p>

<p>
remove the currupt database
</p>

<p>
<code>drop database db_name;</code>
</p>

<p>
Create a new database to import the dump
</p>

<p>
<code>create database db_name;</code>
</p>

<p>
Grant access to owncloud db_user bio_owncloud
</p>

<p>
<code>GRANT ALL ON db_name.* TO &#039;bio_owncloud&#039;@&#039;localhost&#039;; </code>
</p>

<p>
<code>FLUSH PRIVILEGES;</code>
</p>

<p>
Import data to the new empty DB
</p>

<p>
<code>mysql -u root -p db_name &lt; owncloud_dump.sql</code>
</p>

<p>
Copy the old version owncloud exectuable data and config back to /var/www/html/owncloud
</p>

<p>
Restart httpd
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Restore owncloud" [3699-4304] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="upload_data_via_terminal">Upload data via terminal</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
rsync -rltv source_file biodata@owncloud.bioaster.org:/mnt/gpfs/UsersData/userId/files/destination
</p>

<p>
-r mean recursive
-l copy symlinks as symlinks
-t preserve modification time
-v verbo
</p>

<p>
userId is the user owncloud login. 
</p>

<p>
As the gpfs(it&#039;s afs in front) is mounted on owncloud server, so we can use it to upload data.
</p>

<p>
Update owncloud data base to show it on owncloud web interface.
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo -u biodata php occ files:scan -p pliu/files/file_or_folder_to_scan</code>
</p>

<p>
Ps. To use occ, you must under /var/www/html/owncloud/. You don&#039;t need to give complete path such as data/pliu/… .Because php occ will take the first as argument in path as uid. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Upload data via terminal" [4305-4990] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="log_rotation_for_owncloud">log rotation for owncloud</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
We use daemon logrotate to do the logration for owncloud.
</p>

<p>
So we only need to create a conf file in 
</p>

<p>
<code>/etc/logrotate.d/</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>sudo vim owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
put the following lines in it
</p>
<pre class="code">
/var/www/html/owncloud/data/owncloud.log {
        su biodata bioaster
        weekly
        missingok
        rotate 8
        compress
        notifempty
        create 640 biodata bioaster
}
</pre>

<p>
After this, you can test your conf by 
</p>
<pre class="code">logrotate -s /var/log/logstatus /etc/logrotate.conf</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "log rotation for owncloud" [4991-5531] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit5" id="change_owncloud_default_log_location">Change owncloud default log location</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
If you don&#039;t see any error message, it means your conf is correct
</p>

<p>
If you don&#039;t want to put log in /data/, you can edit /config/config.php to redirect log to other location.
</p>

<p>
For example if you want to put them in /var/log/owncloud.
</p>

<p>
So first creat the folder owncloud
</p>

<p>
<code>mkdir /var/log/ownlcoud </code>
</p>

<p>
Then change folder access rights
</p>

<p>
<code>chown -R biodata:bioaster /var/log/owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>chmod -R 0760 /var/log/owncloud</code>
</p>

<p>
Ps. biodata need rwx on owncloud folder
</p>

<p>
Now edit config/config.php, add the 4 lines
</p>
<pre class="code"> &#039;log_type&#039; =&gt; &#039;owncloud&#039;,
  &#039;logfile&#039; =&gt; &#039;/var/log/owncloud/owncloud.log&#039;,
  &#039;logdateformat&#039; =&gt; &#039;F d, Y H:i:s&#039;,
  &#039;loglevel&#039; =&gt; 0,</pre>
<pre class="code">  0: DEBUG: All activity; the most detailed logging.
  1: INFO: Activity such as user logins and file activities, plus warnings, errors, and fatal errors.
  2: WARN: Operations succeed, but with warnings of potential problems, plus errors and fatal errors.
  3: ERROR: An operation fails, but other services and operations continue, plus fatal errors.
  4: FATAL: The server stops.</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Change owncloud default log location" [5532-] -->