
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="install_anaconda">Install anaconda</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Install anaconda&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;install_anaconda&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-32&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Anaconda is the most popular python data science and machine learning platform, used for large-scale data processing, predictive analytics, and scientific computing. Anaconda distribution ships with more than 1,000 data packages, the conda command-line tool and with a desktop graphical user interface called Anaconda Navigator.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Introduction&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;introduction&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;33-388&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="anaconda_vs_pip">Anaconda vs Pip</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Having been involved in the python world for so long, we are all aware of pip, easy_install, and virtualenv, but these tools did not meet all of our specific requirements. The main problem is that they are focused around Python, neglecting non-Python library dependencies, such as HDF5, MKL, LLVM, etc., which do not have a setup.py in their source code and also do not install files into Python’s site-packages directory.
</p>

<p>
So Conda is a packaging tool and installer that aims to do more than what pip does; handle library dependencies outside of the Python packages as well as the Python packages themselves. Conda also creates a virtual environment, like virtualenv does.
</p>

<p>
Because Conda introduces a new packaging format, you cannot use pip and Conda interchangeably;  pip cannot install the Conda package format. You can use the two tools side by side (by installing pip with conda install pip) but they do not interoperate either.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Anaconda vs Pip&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;anaconda_vs_pip&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;389-1354&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="step1_get_the_conda_installer">Step1. Get the conda installer</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
You can get all available conda version at <a href="https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/#download-section" class="urlextern" title="https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/#download-section" rel="nofollow">https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/#download-section</a>. In this tutorial we choose the current latest version Anaconda3-2018.12. The following code will download the installer 
</p>
<pre class="code">cd /tmp
curl -O https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2018.12-Linux-x86_64.sh

# check the script checksum
sha256sum Anaconda3-2018.12-Linux-x86_64.sh 
1019d0857e5865f8a6861eaf15bfe535b87e92b72ce4f531000dc672be7fce00  Anaconda3-2018.12-Linux-x86_64.sh

# compare the above checksums with the checksum of the anaconda web site </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step1. Get the conda installer&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step1_get_the_conda_installer&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1355-1969&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="step2_run_the_anaconda_installer">Step2. Run the anaconda installer</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Before you run the installer, you need to know, anaconda will download and install a python 3.7.0 which will you overwrite all your python3.7 installation.
</p>

<p>
Anaconda installer needs some system dependencies to do the install, install the following dependencies
</p>
<pre class="code">yum install -y bzip2 

# run the installer, it&#039;s not recommended to run with sudo. Choose the user who wishes to install conda 
sh Anaconda3-2018.12-Linux-x86_64.sh

# you will be prompted with a series of questions. based on your needs, answer yes or no.
Installation finished.

Do you wish the installer to initialize Anaconda3
in your /home/linuxize/.bashrc ? [yes|no]

# I recommend you to enter yes
</pre>

<p>
The installer will also ask you whether you would like to download and install Visual Studio Code. You can find more information about Visual Studio on the website (<a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/" class="urlextern" title="https://code.visualstudio.com/" rel="nofollow">https://code.visualstudio.com/</a>). If you want to install Visual Studio Code type yes otherwise type no.
</p>

<p>
To activate the Anaconda installation load the new PATH environment variable which was added by the Anaconda installer into the current shell session with the following command:
</p>
<pre class="code">source ~/.bashrc</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step2. Run the anaconda installer&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step2_run_the_anaconda_installer&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1970-3181&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="step3_verify_the_conda_installation">Step3. Verify the conda installation</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">conda info</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step3. Verify the conda installation&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step3_verify_the_conda_installation&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:3,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3182-3258&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="step4_updating_anaconda">Step4. Updating Anaconda</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># Updating the Anaconda is a pretty straight forward process, first update the conda tool with:
conda update anaconda

# Once conda is updated, proceed with the Anaconda update:
conda update anaconda</pre>

<p>
You should regularly update your Anaconda installation.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step4. Updating Anaconda&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step4_updating_anaconda&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:4,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3259-3569&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit8" id="deleting_anaconda">Deleting Anaconda</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Deleting Anaconda&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;deleting_anaconda&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:5,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3570-3602&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="step1_remove_the_anaconda_install_directory">Step1. Remove the Anaconda install directory</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># Find your anaconda installation path
rm -rf /path/to/anaconda3</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step1. Remove the Anaconda install directory&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step1_remove_the_anaconda_install_directory&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:5,&quot;secid&quot;:9,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3603-3741&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="step2_edit_your_bashrc">Step2. Edit your ~/.bashrc</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
To remove conda from your path, you need to delete the lines which anaconda added, for example in my .bashrc
I have the following line
</p>
<pre class="code"># added by Anaconda3 5.3.1 installer
# &gt;&gt;&gt; conda init &gt;&gt;&gt;
# !! Contents within this block are managed by &#039;conda init&#039; !!
__conda_setup=&quot;$(CONDA_REPORT_ERRORS=false &#039;/home/linuxize/anaconda3/bin/conda&#039; shell.bash hook 2&gt; /dev/null)&quot;
if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
    \eval &quot;$__conda_setup&quot;
else
    if [ -f &quot;/home/linuxize/anaconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh&quot; ]; then
        . &quot;/home/linuxize/anaconda3/etc/profile.d/conda.sh&quot;
        CONDA_CHANGEPS1=false conda activate base
    else
        \export PATH=&quot;/home/linuxize/anaconda3/bin:$PATH&quot;
    fi
fi
unset __conda_setup
# &lt;&lt;&lt; conda init &lt;&lt;&lt;</pre>

<p>
Delete them.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step2. Edit your ~\/.bashrc&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step2_edit_your_bashrc&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:6,&quot;secid&quot;:10,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3742-4530&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="step3_remove_the_hidden_files">Step3. Remove the hidden files</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The following command will remove the hidden files and folders that have been created by Anaconda in your user home directory:
</p>
<pre class="code">rm -rf ~/.condarc ~/.conda ~/.continuum</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Step3. Remove the hidden files&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;step3_remove_the_hidden_files&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:7,&quot;secid&quot;:11,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4531-&quot;} -->