
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="linux_user_account_creation_and_group_creation">Linux user account creation and group creation</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
All user account related information are stored in the following files:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unordered List Item/etc/passwd – Contains one line for each user account.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> /etc/shadow – Contains the password information in encrypted formatfor the system’s accounts and optional account aging information.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> /etc/group – Defines the groups on the system.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> /etc/default/useradd – This file contains a value for the default group, if none is specified by the useradd command.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> /etc/login.defs – This file defines the site-specific configuration for the shadow password suite stored in /etc/shadow file.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Linux user account creation and group creation&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;linux_user_account_creation_and_group_creation&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-666&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="list_all_available_users_in_the_linux">List all available users in the linux</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The below code will return all users (humain or process) of the linux system.
</p>
<pre class="code">cut -d: -f1 /etc/passwd</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;List all available users in the linux&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;list_all_available_users_in_the_linux&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;667-836&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="create_user_account_with_all_possible_options">Create user account with all possible options</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Most used option table
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit4"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign"> Option      </th><th class="col1 leftalign"> Action           </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -c    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Adds comment to the user account     </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -m    </td><td class="col1"> Creates user home directory in default location, if nonexistent </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -s    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Default shell other than /bin/bash     </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -n    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Does not create a private group for the user, usually a group with username     </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;920-1223&quot;} -->
<p>
<strong>1. create user account</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">
# List all local users in your linux server
cut -d: -f1 /etc/password

sudo useradd pliu --uid 8888 --home /home/sweet_home/pliu/ --create-home --groups godTeam, bestDevs --gid bestMan 

-add user pliu
-uid is 8888
-user home /home/sweet_home/pliu/ 
-useradd will create user home
-user will be added two groups godTeam and bestDevs as second group
-user will be added group bestMan as primary group</pre>

<p>
<strong>2. set up password</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo passwd pliu
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Create user account with all possible options&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;create_user_account_with_all_possible_options&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;837-1726&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="disabling_user_accounts">Disabling user accounts</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
There are several methods to disable accounts on a system. These range from editing the /etc/passwd file by hand. Or even using the passwd command with the -lswitch. Both of these methods have one big drawback: if the user has ssh access and uses an RSA key for authentication, they can still login using this method.
</p>

<p>
Now let’s use the chage command, changing the password expiry date to a previous date. Also, it may be good to make a note on the account as to why we disabled it.
</p>
<pre class="code">[root@localhost Downloads]# chage -E 2005-10-01 bjones
 
[root@localhost Downloads]# usermod  -c &quot;Disabled Account while Bob out of the country 
for five months&quot; bjones

[root@localhost Downloads]# grep bjones /etc/passwd 
bjones:x:1001:1001:Disabled Account while Bob out of the country for four 
months:/home/bjones:/bin/bash

[root@localhost Downloads]#</pre>

<p>
chage
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Disabling user accounts&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;disabling_user_accounts&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:3,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1727-2627&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="create_group_with_all_options">Create group with all options</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">#this will create a group bestDevs with gid 8888
groupadd -g 8888 bestDevs

# all group info is stored in /etc/group
# getent can get entries from name service switch libraries
#show all groups and memebers in the system
getent group

# get info of a specific group/gid
getent group bestDevs
getent group 8888
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Create group with all options&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;create_group_with_all_options&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:4,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2628-2996&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="create_group_with_password">create group with password</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Let&#039;s make a new group called secret. We will add a password to the group, allowing the users to add themselves with a known password.
</p>
<pre class="code">[root@localhost]# groupadd secret

[root@localhost]# gpasswd secret 
Changing the password for group secret 
New Password:  
Re-enter new password:

[root@localhost]# exit 
exit

[centos@localhost ~]$ newgrp secret 
Password:

[centos@localhost ~]$ groups 
secret wheel rdc

[centos@localhost ~]$</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;create group with password&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;create_group_with_password&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:5,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2997-3483&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="modifier_user_account">Modifier user account</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
usermod is used to update account attributes.
</p>

<p>
Following are the common usermod switches.
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit9"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign"> Option      </th><th class="col1 leftalign"> Action           </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -c    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Comment, updates the user comment value     </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -a    </td><td class="col1"> Appends, adds user to supplementary groups, only with the -G option </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -d    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Home directory, updates the user&#039;s home directory     </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -G    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Groups, adds or removesthe secondary user groups     </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> -g    </td><td class="col1 leftalign"> Group, default primary group of the user     </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;table&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;table1&quot;,&quot;secid&quot;:9,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3609-3968&quot;} --><pre class="code">[root@localhost]# groups centos 
centos : accounting secret

# change the primary group of pliu to bioaster
[root@localhost]# usermod -g bioaster pliu

# add the secondary group wheel to user centos
[root@localhost]# usermod -a -G wheel centos

[root@localhost]# groups centos
centos : accounting wheel secret

[root@localhost]#</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Modifier user account&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;modifier_user_account&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:6,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3484-4314&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit10" id="modify_group">modify group</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<code>groupmod -g 8888 mygroup</code>
</p>

<p>
change gid of mygroup to 8888
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;modify group&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;modify_group&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:7,&quot;secid&quot;:10,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4315-4401&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit11" id="remove_user">Remove user</h3>
<div class="level3">
<pre class="code">userdel pliu

#remove user and user home
userdel -r pliu</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Remove user&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;remove_user&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:7,&quot;secid&quot;:11,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4402-4497&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit12" id="default_file_permissions_umask">Default File Permissions (umask)</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
When you create a file or directory, the default file permissions assigned to the file or directory are controlled by the user mask. The user mask is set by the umask command in a user initialization file. You can display the current value of the user mask by typing umask and pressing Return.
</p>

<p>
The user mask contains the following octal values:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The first digit sets permissions for the user</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The second sets permissions for group</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The third sets permissions for other, also referred to as “world”</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Note that if the first digit is zero, it is not displayed. For example, if umask is set to 022, 22 is displayed.
</p>

<p>
To determine the umask value you want to set, subtract the value of the permissions you want from 666 (for a file) or 777 (for a directory). The remainder is the value to use with the umask command. For example, suppose you want to change the default mode for files to 644 (rw-r–r–). The difference between 666 and 644 is 022, which is the value you would use as an argument to the umask command. 
</p>

<p>
If you have a umask 002, when you create a directory, it will have 775 (777-002). When you create a file, it will have 664(666-002) which means rw-rw-r. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Default File Permissions (umask)&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;default_file_permissions_umask&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:8,&quot;secid&quot;:12,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4498-&quot;} -->