
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="install_owncloud_client_on_centos_7">Install owncloud client on centos 7</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
This fat client will sync your entire owncloud folder to your local desktop. It may cost you a lot.
</p>

<p>
1. Install the owncloud-client 
</p>
<pre class="code">cd /etc/yum.repos.d/

wget http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/isv:ownCloud:desktop/CentOS_7/isv:ownCloud:desktop.repo

yum install owncloud-client</pre>

<p>
2. Configure the client
</p>

<p>
Click on Applicaions→Accessories→owncloud desktop sync client
</p>

<p>
Enter the owncloud server address: <a href="https://owncloud.bioaster.org" class="urlextern" title="https://owncloud.bioaster.org" rel="nofollow">https://owncloud.bioaster.org</a>
</p>

<p>
Enter your login password owncloud
</p>

<p>
You choose the folder you want to sync and local folder path  
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Install owncloud client on centos 7" [1-611] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="install_desktop_client_on_ubuntu_1604">Install desktop client on ubuntu 16.04</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="code">sudo sh -c &quot;echo &#039;deb http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/isv:/ownCloud:/desktop/Ubuntu_16.04/ /&#039; &gt; /etc/apt/sources.list.d/owncloud-client.list&quot;
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install owncloud-client</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Install desktop client on ubuntu 16.04" [612-892] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="mount_webdav_on_centos_7">Mount webdav on centos 7</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
There are two ways to do this,
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use Gnome or KDE utilites.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use package davfs2 to mount webdav as a file system </div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Mount webdav on centos 7" [893-1053] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="mount_webdav_via_gnome">Mount webdav via Gnome</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<code>Centos KDE</code>
</p>

<p>
1.If you have a gnome or KDE <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> on your centos. It&#039;s very simple. Open a folder (Click on Places→ Home). Now on the top menu bar, you will see a new tab “Files”. Click on Files, then chose connect to Server.
</p>

<p>
2. In the Server address bar, you put 
</p>

<p>
<code>davs:<em>owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/<code>

If your server is on http then use 

</code>dav:</em>owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/</code>
</p>

<p>
A pop up window will ask your login password.
</p>

<p>
After this you will see a new folder on the left hand side bar.
</p>

<p>
<code>Ubuntu unity</code>
</p>

<p>
1.If your ubuntu is a default install. It&#039;s very simple. Open a folder, Now on the top menu bar, you will see a new tab “Files”. Click on Files, then chose connect to Server.
</p>

<p>
2. In the Server address bar, you put 
</p>

<p>
<code>davs:<em>owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/<code>

If your server is on http then use 

</code>dav:</em>owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/</code>
</p>

<p>
A pop up window will ask your login password.
</p>

<p>
After this you will see a new folder on the left hand side bar.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Mount webdav via Gnome" [1054-2101] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit5" id="mount_webdav_via_davfs">Mount webdav via davfs</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="code"># 1. Install epel, the davfs2 package is in the epel repo

sudo yum install epel-release

# 2. Install davfs2 package

sudo yum install davfs2

# 3. Create mount point and conf folder for davfs2

mkdir /home/&lt;uid&gt;/owncloud

mkdir /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2

# 4. Copy and edit davfs conifg file

sudo cp /etc/davfs2/secrets /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2/

sudo chown &lt;uid&gt;:&lt;uid&gt; /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2/secrets

sudo chmod 0600 /home/&lt;uid&gt;/.davfs2/secrets

# Add the following line at the end of file secrets

https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/ &lt;username&gt; &lt;password&gt;

5. Mount the webdav

mount -t davfs https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav/ /home/&lt;uid&gt;/owncloud

6 Make the auto mount at boot

Edit /etc/fstab, add the following line at the end of the file

https://owncloud.bioaster.org/remote.php/webdav   /home/&lt;uid&gt;/owncloud davfs user,rw,auto 0 0</pre>

<p>
<strong>I have tested this, it&#039;s not good idea. Because, at boot stage, you don&#039;t have internet connections alreay, it may result to error.</strong>
</p>

<p>
7. Known issues
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> You may have this as warning message, /sbin/mount.davfs: warning: the server does not support locks</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
You can add <code>use_locks 0</code> in /etc/davfs2/davfs2.conf
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To avoid answer y for accepting servcer certificates. Copy server-certificate.pem to /etc/davfs2/certs/. Then edit /etc/davfs2/davfs2.conf and uncomment the line servercert <code>servercert /etc/davfs2/certs/server-certificate.pem</code></div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Mount webdav via davfs" [2102-] -->