
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="grid_computing">Grid computing</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
In this article, we describe how to use the grid @cc.in2p3.fr.
</p>

<p>
1. First you need to connect to a interactive terminal in cc.
</p>

<p>
ssh pliu@ccage.in2p3.fr
</p>

<p>
2. Make sure you have the univa grid engine(i.e. qsub) client to submit job.
</p>

<p>
For example, we want to read a input file, do some calculation and write the result on a output file
</p>

<p>
 <code>vim my_script.sh</code>
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
#Read file input.txt
value=$(&lt;/sps/bioaster/pt6/pliu/qsub/input.txt)
#Write the output in file output.txt
echo &quot;Hello $value!!!&quot; &gt;&gt; /sps/bioaster/pt6/pliu/qsub/output.txt
</pre>
<p>
NOTE that, all the access on file is only available on the /sps/…
(NFS/GPFS)
</p>

<p>
It&#039;s not possible to ask worker to access your local file system.
</p>

<p>
Now, let&#039;s submit the scipt to the grid.
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
qsub -P P_bioaster -N JOBPLIU02 -l sps=1 -q long mon_script.sh 
</pre>
<p>
<code>-P P_bioaster</code> means this job is for prject bioaster
</p>

<p>
<code>-N JOBPLIU02</code> means the name of this job is <code>JOBPLIU02</code>
</p>

<p>
<code>sps=1</code> means job need sps access
</p>

<p>
<code>-q long</code> means job will be submit to the queue long.
</p>

<p>
After you submit your job, two file will be generated.
</p>

<p>
<code>JOBPLIU02.e13783490</code> is the error message 
</p>

<p>
<code>JOBPLIU02.o13783490</code> is the job stat and cost message.
</p>

<p>
It looks like this
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
***************************************************************
*                  Grid Engine Batch System                   *
*           IN2P3 Computing Centre, Villeurbanne FR           *
***************************************************************
* User:                    pliu                               *
* Group:                   bioaster                           *
* Jobname:                 JOBPLIU02                          *
* JobID:                   13783490                           *
* Queue:                   long                               *
* Worker:                  ccwsge0720.in2p3.fr                *
* Operating system:        Linux 2.6.32-642.13.1.el6.x86_64   *
* Project:                 P_bioaster                         *
***************************************************************
* Submitted on:            Tue May 23 14:12:34 2017           *
* Started on:              Tue May 23 14:12:49 2017           *
***************************************************************


***************************************************************
* Ended on:                Tue May 23 14:12:52 2017           *
* Exit status:             0                                  *
* Consumed                                                    *
*   cpu (HS06):            00:00:00                           *
*   cpu scaling factor:    9.670000                           *
*   cpu time:              0 / 172800                         *
*   efficiency:            00 %                               *
*   io:                    0.00000GB                          *
*   vmem:                  N/A                                *
*   maxvmem:               N/A                                *
*   maxrss:                N/A                                *
***************************************************************
</pre>
</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Grid computing" [1-3111] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="use_grid_in_interactive_mod">Use grid in interactive mod</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="prettyprint">
qlogin -P P_bioaster -l sps=1

qlogin -P P_bioaster -pe multicores 4 -l sps=1 -q mc_interactive
</pre>
<p>
it will promp a terminal of the worker which execute your job.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Use grid in interactive mod" [3112-3330] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="run_matlab_script_in_grid">Run matlab script in grid</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="prettyprint">
#!/bin/bash

#run my first mablab job;

qsub -P P_bioaster -N &quot;Pengfei_matlab_test&quot; -l sps=1 -q long &lt;&lt; EOF 

#!/bin/bash
cd /sps/bioaster/pt6/matlab/pengfei_test
matlab -nodisplay -nosplash -nodesktop -r &#039;try calculator(98); catch; end; quit&#039;

EOF

</pre>
</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Run matlab script in grid" [3331-3637] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="compile_matlab_script_to_executable">Compile matlab script to executable</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="prettyprint">
mcc -m calculator.m -o cal_exe 
</pre>
<p>
It will generate the following 5 files
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
-rwxr--r-- 1 pliu   bioaster  87K May 29 14:41 cal_exe
-rw-r--r-- 1 pliu   bioaster 1.8K May 29 14:41 mccExcludedFiles.log
-rw-r--r-- 1 pliu   bioaster 3.7K May 29 14:41 readme.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 pliu   bioaster    6 May 29 14:41 requiredMCRProducts.txt
-rwxr--r-- 1 pliu   bioaster  875 May 29 14:41 run_cal_exe.sh
</pre>
<p>
To run the executable,
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
sh run_cal_exe.sh args
</pre>
<p>
If you have matlab runtime on your pc, it should do the job,
</p>

<p>
otherwise, you will receive the following error:
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
------------------------------------------
Setting up environment variables
---
LD_LIBRARY_PATH is .:10/runtime/glnxa64:10/bin/glnxa64:10/sys/os/glnxa64:10/sys/opengl/lib/glnxa64
./cal_exe: error while loading shared libraries: libmwlaunchermain.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
</pre>
<p>
You need to install the matlab runtime (MCR) on your pc.
</p>

<p>
The following page will guide you how to install MCR
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://fr.mathworks.com/help/compiler_sdk/dotnet/install-the-matlab-runtime.html" class="urlextern" title="https://fr.mathworks.com/help/compiler_sdk/dotnet/install-the-matlab-runtime.html"  rel="nofollow">https://fr.mathworks.com/help/compiler_sdk/dotnet/install-the-matlab-runtime.html</a>
</p>

<p>
After install MCR, we could run the script
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
./run_cal_exe.sh &lt;mcr_directory&gt; &lt;argument_list&gt;
#If you have version 9.1 of the MATLAB Runtime installed in /mathworks/home/application/v91, run the shell script as:

./run_cal_exe.sh /mathworks/home/application/v91

</pre>
<p>
If you want to run the matlab executable on a worker in grid of CC.
</p>

<p>
you can use the mcr installed by cc.
</p>

<p>
their location is /usr/local/matlab/, you also need to specify the version of your matlab mcr,
</p>

<p>
for example, if your code is compile with R2016b, you need to use mcr R2016b.
</p>

<p>
Suppose we have compiled the calculator.m with R2016b, to run it, we need the following command
</p>
<pre class="prettyprint">
sh run_cal_exe.sh /usr/local/matlab/R2016b 2
</pre>
<p>
where /usr/local/matlab/R2016b is the path of mcr.
</p>

<p>
There is cc page which explains all about matlab in cc.
<a href="https://doc.cc.in2p3.fr/soft_compilation_matlab?s[]=mcc" class="urlextern" title="https://doc.cc.in2p3.fr/soft_compilation_matlab?s[]=mcc"  rel="nofollow">https://doc.cc.in2p3.fr/soft_compilation_matlab?s[]=mcc</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Compile matlab script to executable" [3638-] -->