
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="openstack_cli">OpenStack cli</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "OpenStack cli" [1-29] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="credetials_to_use_openstack">Credetials to use openstack</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
In your home, you should find a dir .novacreds
</p>

<p>
In this dir, you can find a key pair and novarc.sh. In novarc.sh, you can find your login and pwd and keystone server info.
</p>
<pre class="code">#novarc.sh
export OS_USERNAME=&quot;pliu&quot;
export OS_PASSWORD=&quot;6521963a-fabf-11e2-ba12-020000006c0d&quot;
export OS_PROJECT_NAME=&quot;bioaster&quot;
export OS_AUTH_URL=&quot;https://cckeystone.in2p3.fr:5000/v3/&quot;
export OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME=Default
export OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME=Default
export OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION=3
export OS_VOLUME_API_VERSION=2</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Credetials to use openstack" [30-583] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="command_for_adding_key_pair_in_openstack">Command for adding key pair in openstack</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
When you boot a new vm you need to give a default ssh keypair for ssh connextion after the vm creation.
</p>
<pre class="code"># list all registered keypair
nova keypair-list

# create a key pair named &quot;mykey&quot; and output it to a file in user&#039;s .ssh dir
nova keypair-add mykey &gt; ~/.ssh/cloudkey

# if you already have a key pair you can upload the public key to openstack with name mykeyy
nova keypair-add --pub-key ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub mykey

# show key key details
nova keypair-show mykey

# delete key
nova keypair-delete mykey</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Command for adding key pair in openstack" [584-1157] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="command_for_vm">Command for vm</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># list all vms in tenant
nova list

# list all flavors
nova flavor-list

# list all images
glance image-list

# create a vm
nova boot --flavor &lt;flavor-id&gt; --image &lt;img-id&gt; --key-name &lt;key-name&gt; &lt;vm-name&gt;
# example
nova boot --flavor m1.medium.2 --image Template_Centos_7_latest_28_06_2018 --key-name bioaster_os CCLinCytoD01

# stop/start/restart a vm
nova stop/start/restart &lt;vm-name&gt;

# delete a vm
nova delete &lt;vm-name&gt;</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Command for vm" [1158-1624] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="command_for_image">Command for image</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># create image (snapshoot of a vm)
nova image-create --poll &lt;vm-name&gt; &lt;image-name&gt;
# delete image
glance image-delete &lt;image-name&gt;</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Command for image" [1625-1802] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="resize_your_vm">Resize your vm</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># Step 1: resize your vm flavor, --poll option shows the resize progress.
nova resize &lt;server-id/name&gt; &lt;flavor-id/name&gt; --poll

# By default, the nova resize command gives the guest operating system a chance to perform a controlled shutdown before the instance is powered off and the instance is resized. The shutdown behavior is configured by the shutdown_timeout parameter that can be set in the nova.conf file. Its value stands for the overall period (in seconds) a guest operation system is allowed to complete the shutdown. The default timeout is 60 seconds. See Description of Compute configuration options for details.

The timeout value can be overridden on a per image basis by means of os_shutdown_timeout that is an image metadata setting allowing different types of operating systems to specify how much time they need to shut down cleanly.

# Step 2: show the status of your vm, if the resize complete, the status becomes VERIFY_RESIZE.

# Step 3: Confirm the resize
openstack server resize --confirm &lt;server-id/name&gt;

# After confirm, the server status becomes active
# if the resize fails or does not work as expected, you can revert the  resize
openstack server resize --revert &lt;server-id/name&gt;

# The server status becomes active after convert</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Resize your vm" [1803-3106] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="new_openstack_cli">New openstack cli</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code"># show information about your server
openstack server show &lt;server-id/name&gt;

# show flavor list
openstack flavor list

</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "New openstack cli" [3107-] -->