
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="configure_yum_and_manage_yum_repo">Configure yum and manage Yum repo</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Configure yum and manage Yum repo&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;configure_yum_and_manage_yum_repo&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-49&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="configure_yum">Configure yum</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The configuration information for yum and related utilities is located at /etc/yum.conf. This file contains one mandatory [main] section, which enables you to set yum options that have a global effect, and can also contain one or more [repository] sections, which allow you to set repository-specific options. However, it is recommended to define individual repositories in new or existing .repo files in the /etc/yum.repos.d/ directory. The values you define in individual [repository] sections of the /etc/yum.conf file override values set in the [main] section.
</p>

<p>
An example of the yum main configuration
</p>
<pre class="code">[main]
cachedir=/var/cache/yum/$basearch/$releasever
keepcache=0
debuglevel=2
logfile=/var/log/yum.log
exactarch=1
obsoletes=1
gpgcheck=1
plugins=1
installonly_limit=3
bugtracker_url=http://bugs.centos.org/set_project.php?project_id=23&amp;ref=http://bugs.centos.org/bug_report_page.php?category=yum
distroverpkg=centos-release
</pre>

<p>
You can get all the option explanation from this address: <a href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/system_administrators_guide/sec-configuring_yum_and_yum_repositories" class="urlextern" title="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/system_administrators_guide/sec-configuring_yum_and_yum_repositories" rel="nofollow">https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/system_administrators_guide/sec-configuring_yum_and_yum_repositories</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Configure yum&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;configure_yum&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;50-1231&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="viewing_the_current_configuration">Viewing the Current Configuration</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Once, your configuration is done. To display the current values of global yum options (that is, the options specified in the [main] section of the /etc/yum.conf file), execute the yum-config-manager command with no command-line options:
</p>
<pre class="code">yum-config-manager</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Viewing the Current Configuration&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;viewing_the_current_configuration&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1232-1550&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="manage_your_yum_repo">Manage your yum repo</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Manage your yum repo&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;manage_your_yum_repo&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:2,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1551-1584&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="adding_enabling_and_disabling_a_yum_repository">Adding, Enabling, and Disabling a yum repository</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
To define a new repository, you can either add a [repository] section to the /etc/yum.conf file, or to a .repo file in the /etc/yum.repos.d/ directory. All files with the .repo file extension in this directory are read by yum.
</p>

<p>
Note it is recommended to define your repositories in a .repo and put it in the /etc/yum.repos.d/ directory instead of in /etc/yum.conf.
</p>

<p>
Warning: The repo must be trusted, otherwise it could lead to security, stability issues.
</p>

<p>
Check this url for all trusted repos: <a href="https://wiki.centos.org/fr/AdditionalResources/Repositories/" class="urlextern" title="https://wiki.centos.org/fr/AdditionalResources/Repositories/" rel="nofollow">https://wiki.centos.org/fr/AdditionalResources/Repositories/</a>
</p>

<p>
Yum repositories commonly provide their own .repo file. To add such a repository to your system and enable it, run the following command as root:
</p>
<pre class="code"># repository_url is a link to the .repo file
yum-config-manager --add-repo repository_url

# adding an exmaple repo
yum-config-manager --add-repo http://www.example.com/example.repo

# Enable a repo, you can get the repoId via yum repolist all
yum-config-manager --enable repoId

# Replace the repoId by *, you can enable all repo
yum-config-manager --enable \*

# Disabling a Yum Repository
yum-config-manager --disable repoId</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Adding, Enabling, and Disabling a yum repository&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;adding_enabling_and_disabling_a_yum_repository&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:2,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1585-2793&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="reset_your_yum_base_repo">Reset your yum base repo</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
The CentOS 7 base release repo conf is located at “/etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-Base.repo”. It contains three parts:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Base</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Extras</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Updates</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
If this conf is corrupted, you can no longer download or update packages from the centos 7 base release repo.
</p>

<p>
You can reset it by doing the following steps
</p>
<pre class="code"># erase the corrupted repo, --nodeps means remove centos-release without dependencies
rpm -e centos-release --nodeps

# add the new correct repo
rpm -Uvh http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/os/x86_64/Packages/centos-release-7-6.1810.2.el7.centos.x86_64.rpm

# The above URL may change with time, the best way to get the latest url. Goto http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/os/x86_64/Packages, then find the latest centos-release-7 on the page

# You can check the new repo
yum repolist</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Reset your yum base repo&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;reset_your_yum_base_repo&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:3,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2794-&quot;} -->